> **{DISCLOSING_PARTY}**
> 
> **CONFIDENTIALITY AND NONDISCLOSURE AGREEMENT**

This CONFIDENTIALITY AND NONDISCLOSURE AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is
entered into as of the \_\_\_ day of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, 2020,
("Effective Date") by and between the
{DISCLOSING_PARTY},
a {ENTITY_TYPE} of the State of California acting by and through its
{ACTOR} (the "Disclosing Party")
and the California Data Collaborative, a fiscally-sponsored project of
Social and Environmental Entrepreneurs (SEE), Inc., a Delaware nonprofit
corporation (the "Interested Party"). The Disclosing Party and
Interested Party are sometimes referred to herein individually as a
"Party" and collectively as the "Parties."

> **RECITALS**

A. Disclosing Party maintains confidential information and data relating
to its customers, real property, water facilities and infrastructure
(the "Confidential Information," as defined below).

B. Certain water agencies in California have formed the California Data
Collaborative (the “CaDC”), a nonprofit organization for a collaborative
project to improve the management and organization of California water
data statewide. The CaDC will maintain a centralized customer-level
water usage database whereby the participating water agencies will
provide raw customer data and other relevant water efficiency data to
the Interested Party, who will be conducting the scope of work as
approved by the CaDC Steering committee.

C. The Disclosing Party has elected to participate in the CaDC (the
“Purpose”). Participation by Disclosing Party is contingent upon the
execution of this Agreement which provides for the security, privacy,
and nondisclosure of the Confidential Information provided to Interested
Parties by Disclosing Party.

D. Except with respect to the limited manner in which the Confidential
Information may be utilized by Interested Party as provided in this
Agreement, the Parties to this Agreement desire to mutually maintain the
confidentiality of the Confidential Information. The purpose of this
Agreement is to enable the Interested Party to deliver each scope of
work described in the annual analytics agreement and approved by the
CaDC Steering committee while preserving the confidential and
proprietary character of the Confidential Information.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing Recitals and the
mutual covenants and agreements set forth below, the Parties hereto
agree as follows:

1.  **Confidential Information**

(a) For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Confidential Information"
shall be deemed to be used in the most comprehensive and broadest sense
and means any and all proprietary or confidential information of the
Disclosing Party disclosed by the Disclosing Party under this Agreement,
including, without limitation, Disclosing Party's customer information,
customer names, meter numbers, utility usage data, addresses, telephone
numbers, facsimile numbers and/or e-mail addresses, and any other
information that, by its nature, should reasonably be considered
confidential or proprietary.

(b) The Parties agree that the Confidential Information is and shall
remain the sole and exclusive proprietary property of Disclosing Party,
and except for the Purpose set forth in this Agreement, and that the
Interested Party (with respect to Confidential Information of Disclosing
Party) shall not acquire any license or other right whatsoever in the
Confidential Information by virtue of this Agreement or by virtue of any
disclosure of the Confidential Information pursuant hereto. The
Interested Party shall, upon written request and as directed by the
Disclosing Party, return or destroy all documents or materials
containing or representing Disclosing Party’s Confidential Information
in its possession or under its control together with all copies thereof,
and shall certify to the Disclosing Party such destruction or return by
written confirmation executed by a senior executive officer authorized
to make such statements.

2.  **No Disclosure**

(a) Except as provided below in this Section 2, the Interested Party
agrees to use Confidential Information of the Disclosing Party solely in
connection with the Purpose. The Interested Party shall (i) hold and
maintain the Confidential Information in the strictest confidence, using
the same degree of care the Interested Party uses in protecting its own
most confidential information, but in no event less than a reasonable
degree of care, and (ii) shall not disclose all or any portion of the
Confidential Information to any other party without Disclosing Party's
prior written consent. Interested Party shall not disclose or permit the
disclosure of all or any portion of the Confidential Information to any
employee, agent, or other representative of Interested Party and/or its
affiliate(s) other than those with a need to know, who have been advised
of this Agreement and Interested Party's obligations hereunder, and who
represent and warrant to Interested Party in writing that he, she, or it
agrees to be bound by the terms of this Agreement.

(b) In the event the Interested Party is required to disclose
Confidential Information of Disclosing Party pursuant to a valid order
of a court or other governmental body or pursuant to any law, the
Interested Party shall promptly provide written notice thereof to the
Disclosing Party and shall cooperate with the Disclosing Party to
protect against or limit the scope of such disclosure. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the Receiving
Party will continue to protect as confidential and proprietary all
Confidential Information disclosed in connection with the foregoing. 

For example, and not by way of limitation, the Parties agree, within the
requirements of the Public Records Act and any other applicable state or
federal law, to protect all Confidential Information from disclosure and
preserve any and all applicable exemptions under the Public Records Act
and any applicable legal privileges for such Confidential Information,
to the same degree of care and legal responsibility as each Party
protects their own confidential and proprietary information from
disclosure.

3.  **Indemnification**

Interested Party agrees to hold and maintain all of Disclosing Party’s
Confidential Information for the Purpose set forth in this Agreement,
and shall not use the Confidential Information for any purpose other
than pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and any other contract
entered into by and between Disclosing Party and Interested Party. .
Interested Parties shall indemnify and hold harmless Disclosing Party
from and against any and all claims, liabilities, expenses or damages,
including reasonable attorneys' fees, for any damages, claims arising
from this Agreement, including breach of this Agreement

4.  **Injunctive Relief**

Interested Party agrees that should it breach or threaten to breach any
provision of this Agreement, Disclosing Party may suffer irreparable
damages and, if so, its remedies at law will be inadequate. Therefore,
if Interested Party threatens or actually breaches the disclosure
obligations outlined in this Agreement, Disclosing Party may be
entitled, in addition to all other remedies available to it at law or in
equity, to the following: (a) equitable relief, including specific
performance and injunctive relief to enforce any provision hereof and to
restrain Interested Party from using or disclosing, in whole or in part,
directly or indirectly, any Confidential Information; and (b) recovery
for damages, losses, and expenses of any nature (including, but not
limited to, reasonable attorneys’ fees) directly related to such breach
or threatened breach.

5.  **Term**

The term of this Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and
shall remain in effect unless or until all Confidential Information that
has been provided to Interested Party has been returned to Disclosing
Party or otherwise deleted or removed from the possession of Interested
Party in the manner as determined in Disclosing Party's sole discretion.

6.  **General Provisions**

(a) **Governing Law** This Agreement shall be governed by California
law. Disclosing Party and Interested Party each hereby specifically
agree that any legal action regarding this Agreement shall be commenced
and maintained solely in, and hereby specifically consent to venue in,
and the jurisdiction of, the State and Federal District Courts located
in Los Angeles County, California.

(b) **Binding Agreement** The provisions of this Agreement shall be
binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Parties hereto and
their respective affiliates, successors and assigns. This Agreement may
be waived, altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, only upon
the written consent of all Parties.

(c) **Partial Invalidity** If any part of this Agreement is declared
invalid for any reason, such determination or ruling shall not affect
the validity of the rest of the Agreement. The other parts of the
Agreement shall remain in effect as if the Agreement had been executed
without the invalid part. The Parties hereby declare that they intend
and desire that the remaining parts of the Agreement continue to be
effective without any part or parts that have been declared invalid.

(d) **Counterparts** This Agreement may be executed in counterparts,
each of which shall be deemed an original. The signature of a Party by
facsimile will be effective provided that an original is concurrently
sent to all other Parties.

(e) **No Waiver** The failure of any Party hereto at any time to
enforce any of the provisions of this Agreement, or to require at any
time performance of any of the provisions hereof, shall in no way be
construed to be a waiver of such provisions or to affect either the
validity of this Agreement or the right of any Party to thereafter
enforce each and every provision of this Agreement. 

(f) **Assignment** This Agreement may not be sold, issued, assigned,
or otherwise transferred by either Party, and any such attempted
assignment shall be void and of no effect without the advance written
consent of the other Party, which shall not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed.

(g) **Force Majeure** Neither Party shall be liable for any damages
or penalty for any delay in performance of, or failure to perform, any
obligation hereunder or for failure to give the other Party prior notice
thereof, if such delay or failure is due to civil disturbances,
military, state, health, or national emergencies, natural disasters,
acts of God, or other similar causes beyond that Party’s reasonable
control.

(h) **Independent Contractor** Interested Party is an independent
contractor and neither this Agreement nor any of its provisions shall
preclude Interested Party from providing services of any kind to any
other Party during the Term of this Agreement.

(i) **Amendments** This Agreement may be modified in writing only,
signed by the parties in interest at the time of the modification.

(j) **Signature** The individual signing this Agreement on behalf of
Disclosing Party has the legal authority to enter into an agreement of
this type for Disclosing Party.

(k) **Entire Agreement** This Agreement, including the recitals set
forth above, constitutes the entire agreement between and among the
Parties to this Agreement pertaining to the subject matter of this
Agreement and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements,
representations and understandings of the Parties.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement as of the
date first set forth above.


Disclosing Party:

**{DISCLOSING_PARTY}**

By:

Date:


Interested Party:

**Social and Environmental Entrepreneurs (SEE)**

By:

    Jennifer Hoffman

    Executive Director

Date:
